# The Determinants of COVID-19 Vaccine Hesitancy<br/>STAT  471 Final Project<br/>William Cheng<br/>December 19, 2021

Despite the growing body of research focused on understanding COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy, there is still much to be learned about the factors that make some individuals more susceptible to COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy. Hence, for my final project, I decided to look into a wide range of social, economic, health, and lifestyle factors and analyze which factors were most predictive of vaccine hesitancy in individuals. In this project, I analyzed data from the most recent collection period (September 29, 2021 - October 11, 2021) of the Household Pulse Survey conducted by the U.S. Census. While only analyzing data from this period inherently limits my results, utilizing data within this short timeframe generally controls for a variety of external events that can affect vaccine hesitancy such as federal/employer vaccine mandates or the FDA approval of new vaccines. 

My dataset pulled data from the Household Pulse Survey which was conducted by the U.S. Census. My explanatory variables span four main categories of factors: social (e.g. age, ethnicity, marital status), economic factors (e.g. health insurance coverage, income), health (e.g. mental health, physical health), and lifestyle factors (e.g. working from home, eating at restaurants). My primary response variable of interest was the hesitancy to receive the COVID-19 vaccine.

Before exploring the data or running any analyses, I split the data into a training dataset and a test dataset, with the training dataset used for building the predictive models and the test dataset used for assessing and comparing model performance. Then, I explored the data to check for class imbalance and to assess associations between variables and between variables and the response. To build an optimal predictive model, I constructed six different models: logistic regression, ridge regression, LASSO regression, elastic net regression, classification tree, and boosting. Of the regression models, logistic regression had the lowest misclassification rate and of the tree-based models, the boosted model had the lowest misclassification rate. The logistic regression and the boosted model had near-identical misclassification rates.

Interestingly, I found that the logistic regression and boosted model both pointed to similar types of variables as the strongest predictors of vaccine hesitancy. Specifically, the boosted model revealed that age, education level, and prior exposure to COVID emerged as the most significant predictors. As herd immunity is only achieved when the majority is vaccinated, public health officials can use these findings to adjust their messaging to better encourage individuals in specific subpopulations to receive the COVID vaccines. I hope that this analysis can inform additional policies aimed at improving vaccination rates in the United States, both in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic and more generally going forward. 
